﻿# First Baby Steps with nanoFrameworkThis guide is aimed at users who don't necessarily have a lot of experience with Visual Studio. It sticks exclusively to the latest stable release of nanoFramework so you can quickly and confidently gain familiarity with the build, deployment, and debugging process without getting sidetracked by a bug that might have appeared yesterday, will almost certainly be fixed by tomorrow, and would probably paralyze (or at least seriously derail) you *tonight* if you encountered it because you're still learning how everything works.While reading through this guide, just keep in mind that nanoFramework is under active, daily development, and almost any "real" project you plan to use it for is going to require using a newer release... *especially* if you're using a library developed by somebody else. For now, don't worry about that. Get your first project using nanoFramework to illuminate LEDs & read buttons to work using the instructions in this guide, *then* worry about [the more advanced "Getting Started" guide](getting-started-managed.md).# The hardwareIn this guide, we'll be covering two popular platforms: * ST Microelectronics [STM32F746 NUCLEO](http://www.st.com/content/st_com/en/products/evaluation-tools/product-evaluation-tools/mcu-eval-tools/stm32-mcu-eval-tools/stm32-mcu-nucleo/nucleo-f746zg.html), referred to hereafter as "STM32"* ESP32 boards based on the Wemos Lolin32, referred to hereafter as "ESP32"# Install Visual Studio 2019 & the nanoFramework VS2019 ExtensionThe first part is to get Visual Studio 2019 and the **nanoFramework** extension installed.1. Download Visual Studio 2019. If you already have it installed, you can skip this step. If you don't, please download the free [Visual Studio Community 2019](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads) edition. Either way, make sure you've selected the .NET desktop workload.2. Launch Visual Studio 2019 (we'll just refer to it as VS from now on) and install the **nanoFramework** extension. * Select Extensions > Manage Extensions (was "Tools > Extensions and Update" in VS2017). * In the left pane, select "Online", then enter "nanoFramework" in the Search box (upper right). In the middle pane, you should find something with a name like, "nanoFramework VS2019 Extension [Preview]". Download & install it.# Flash nfCore firmware to your deviceWhen you ***build*** a project, Visual Studio doesn't compile it directly into a binary for your target platform... it compiles it into Common Intermediate Language (CIL). When you ***deploy*** a project, the nanoFramework VS2019 Extension reboots your target device and uploads the CIL assemblies, which then get compiled locally into a *real* native binary by ***nfCore firmware***.If you have past experience using an ESP32 or STM32 as an "Arduino", you've already encountered something similar. ***nfCore firmware*** is **nanoFramework**'s direct equivalent to *ArduinoCore*. Note that while they're the same *concept*, they are absolutely **not the same code**. *ArduinoCore* is for using an ESP32 or STM32 as an Arduino. *nfCore firmware* is for using an ESP32 or STM32 with *nanoFramework*.To install **nfCore firmware**, use [nano Firmware Flasher](https://github.com/nanoframework/nanoFirmwareFlasher).1. Open a command prompt2. execute the following command to install it:    ```console    dotnet tool install -g nanoFirmwareFlasher    ```	3. The next step depends upon whether your board is an ESP32 or a STM32F746.   ***Important!*** If you get an error while running `nanoff`, make sure Visual Studio isn't running. Generally, only one program or process at a time can be connected to your target board's USB serial port. Visual Studio is one such program. `nanoff` is another.##### ESP32:(in the example below, "COM{x}" would be something like "COM4", "COM12", etc... the address Windows has assigned to your board's USB-serial bridge).```consolenanoff --target ESP32_WROOM_32 --stable --serialport COM{x}```##### ST board connected through JTAG (ST-Link):```consolenanoff --target ST_NUCLEO144_F746ZG --update```	##### ST board connected through DFU (like NETDUINO3)Put the board in DFU mode. This can be accomplished by pressing a certain combination of buttons, and is specific to the particular hardware you're using. Then, execute:	```consolenanoff --target NETDUINO3_WIFI --update```	(@ToDo: finish)